---
layout: post
title: Reviving this website
tags: nix ruby
date: 2022-06-22T17:07:51-05:00
---

{% include figure.html
  image="/assets/img/nikyll.png"
%}

I've come a long way since my last post in 2016. There's a lot to write about.
Let's start by showing how a recent obsession of mine, applying Nix to every
project, has finally spread to this very blog.

<!--more-->

I have been using Nix/NixOS a lot. I like being able to capture a complicated,
environment-specific setup process in a single command. I like being able to
make patches to any software, and do so with a remote buildbot rather than my
tiny Chromebook. It has gotten to the point where the dotfiles (and in some
cases, entire operating systems) for every device I own is stored in a single
git repo.

Now, each of my projects have a complete, portable, version-controlled,
easy-to-use, and language-agnostic method to build it or set up its dev
environment, without distro-specific dependency fetching or home directory
cruft.

This site uses Jekyll. Before long, it, too, was being built via Nix. Here's
how it works.

Jekyll is a Ruby program. Any plugins are specified in the Gemfile. For this
site, that's `github-pages`, `jekyll-feed`, and `jemoji`. Nix can store gems,
but for that to happen, each gem in the dependency tree needs to be known and
content-addressable at eval time. The Gemfile.lock does not store hashes, so
there is a tool that generates a Nix expression from the Gemfile, and the
entire deptree will be available at eval time. I run `nix run 'nixpkgs#bundix'
-- -l` which generates a `gemset.nix` file.

The `flake.nix` file is the topmost Nix expression. I define two packages,
`perrycode` and `perrycode-watch`. They are both derivations with a single
output each, but the former yields a directory containing the generated site,
and the latter yields a shell script that wraps `jekyll serve`.

Now, I can run `nix build` to generate the site, and `nix run` to host it
locally, watching for changes. The cool part is that this works on *any*
machine that has Nix installed, regardless of distro, even WSL.

If I ever run into a problem where nokogiri (or some other troublesome gem)
needs a C source patch to work with new versions of glibc (just a hypothetical,
but a plausible one), it'd just be a six-line change, at most.

In the future, I would like to see Nix replace all language-specific package
managers. Nobody likes solving a problem by deleting `node_modules`, re-running
`npm install`, and hoping for the best.
