---
layout: post
title: Exercising CSS skills
tags: css html
date: 2023-05-16T12:53:23-05:00
---

{% include figure.html
  image="/assets/img/chunky.webp"
  caption="The pickaxe has an animated enchantment glint, just like in Minecraft."
%}

To keep myself fresh with CSS, I searched for design inspiration, and implemented this. It's an imaginary SaaS product called "chunky" that lets users manage something Minecraft-related, perhaps game server hosting.

This uses CSS (especially SCSS/Sass, the CSS compositing and blending module, and CSS animations), semantic HTML, responsive layouts, and React.

<!--more-->

### Flexboxes and `line-height`

A lot of care was put into aligning everything just right, espcially leveraging the CSS baseline. Look at the navigation bar at the top. Despite varying element height, varying `font-size`, and several nested flexboxes, all text ends up at the same vertical baseline.

Except the "chunky" logo; it just looks better shifted down like that.

Knowing how to leverage `line-height` is the key to vertically aligning wildly different texts.

### The pickaxe

The enchanted pickaxe is made from two elements, a foreground and a background. They occupy the same bounds.

The foreground is more interesting. It has two comma-separated values for `background-image`: in front, a `repeating-linear-gradient`, and at back, the source image of the pickaxe. The gradient in particular is at a slight angle and is made of two translucent colors (in an A-B-A pattern, so that it repeats smoothly). However, as described so far, the gradient would render the entire bounding box of the element, so I needed another trick to make the gradient take the shape of the pickaxe: It uses the `mask-image` CSS property, which let me _re-use the already-loaded pickaxe image_ as an alpha mask. Finally, the gradient is then animated by alternating between two `background-position`s.

I had to expand the gradient downward since `repeating-linear-gradient` defaults to rendering a texture only the size of its element, so scrolling the gradient in any direction reveals a nasty seam. Also, `mask-image` is vendor-prefixed, but thankfully SASS took care of that by itself, and the effect works in all browsers tested.

The background re-uses the pickaxe image _a third time_, running it through several `filter` functions, resulting in a nice grey shadow.

### Conclusion

It's a nice design, but it could use some more art, and I could flesh out the page with more sections. I don't plan on turning this into an actual Minecraft product, of course. I deployed this to Azure Static Web Apps using GitHub Actions, though because I am cautious with runaway bills when using cloud services, I won't link it here. You can see this [(design-playground)](https://github.com/hypevhs/design-playground) and other projects of mine if you visit my GitHub profile!
